# Video-Game-Length-and-User-Score
With the increasing prevalence of the live-service model in gaming, it's clear that publishers are attempting to deliver more value to the consumer through extending the amount of hours of play that each title offers. While more hours of play may provide greater value in terms of the price per hour played, recent releases such as Assassin's Creed: Valhalla have been criticized for overstaying their welcome and padding out the game's playtime. This makes us ask: does increasing a game's playtime truly improve the perceived value of the game in the eyes of the consumer? In this analysis, we will explore the relationship between the average length of a video game and its average user rating. Data is from www.gamefaqs.com Game Rankings. The complete dataset is available above.

# The Dataset
This data come from www.gamefaqs.com 's Game Rankings. Users with a GameFAQs account can report the number of hours it took for them to complete a game and also rate it on a scale of 0-5, 5 being the best. The website reports the mean hours to complete and mean user score for each game. In this analysis, we will only look at games that have at least 100 user ratings in order to ensure the robustness of the data. Since we are interested in recent games, we will only include games from the PlayStation 4 console. The data is sorted from highest user rating to lowest user rating. 

# Conclusion
Our regression model found only a very slight positive correlation between the average length of a game and its average user rating (R^2 = 0.11). On the whole, this is not enough justification to arbitrarily increase a game's length, as this is not a significant enough association between the two variables. Based off this analysis, our reccomendation to publishers is to not extend the playtime simply for the sake of doing so. Rather, they should seek to deliver a playtime that is consistent with the creative vision of the game's design team. Avoiding unnecessary game development that stems from extending playtime reduces development time and lowers costs.

# Shortcomings
It is important to recognize the imperfections of the dataset and analysis. One major shortcoming of the dataset is that GameFAQs only allows users to report up to a maximum of 80 hours of playtime. In this analysis, we assumed the playtime for each one of these games to be 80 hours, but the true playtime is likely greater than 80 hours. Another shortcoming is that this dataset only contains games from the Playstation 4, omitting titles that were exclusive to other 8th-generation consoles such as the Xbox One, Nintendo Wii U and Nintendo Switch. Another shortcoming is that there is no set definition on what is considered a game's playtime. Some users may consider a game's playtime as simply the time it takes to finish the main storyline, and may report it as such. Others however may consider it the time to achieve 100% completion and may report it as such. These two approaches could result in vastly different playtimes for the same game. This problem is mitigated by taking the average of at least 100 user votes, but is still worth noting.
